MRG: Develop Boolean arrays (#114)
resampling-stats/resampling-with: source/more_sampling_tools.Rmd

```

```{python}
# The 3 buckets.  Each bucket represents a ship.  Each has two chests.
bucket1 = ['Gold', 'Gold']  # Chests in first ship.
bucket2 = ['Gold',  'Silver']  # Chests in second ship.
bucket3 = ['Silver', 'Silver']  # Chests in third ship.
```

```{python}
# For each trial, we will have one of three states:
#
# 1. When opening the first chest, it did not contain gold.
#    We will reject these trials, since they do not match our
#    experiment description.
# 2. Gold was found in the first and the second chest.
# 3. Gold was found in the first, but silver in the second chest.
#
# We need a placeholder value for all trials, and will make that
# "No gold in first chest".

> second_chests = np.repeat(['No gold in first chest'], 10000)

Reviewer: This discrepancy is still here: "second chest" says "no gold in first chest". That feels like a mismatch.

Reviewer: Consider: `never opened`?

:::

## Back to Boolean {{< var array >}}s

> The code above implements the procedure we might well use if were were

Reviewer 2: were were -> we were

Author: Thanks!

```suggestion
The code above implements the procedure we might well use if we were
```

the trials of interest, and then count them up with {{< var sum >}}.

Boolean {{< var array >}}s are a fundamental tool in {{< var lang >}}, and we will use them in nearly all our simulations.

Here is a remind of how those {{< var array >}}s work.

First, let's slice out the first 10 values of the `second_trunks`
trial-by-trial results tally from the simulation above:

```{python}
# Get values at positions 0 through 9 (up to, but not including position 10)
first_10_trunks = second_trunks[:10]
first_10_trunks
```

```{r}
# Get values at positions 1 through 10
first_10_trunks <- second_trunks[1:10]
first_10_trunks
```

Before we started the simulation, we set `second_trunks` to contain 10,000
strings, where each string was "No gold in first trunk".  In the simulation, we
check whether there was gold in the first trunk, and, if not, we don't change
the value in `second_trunk`, and the value remains as "No gold in first trunk".

Only if there was gold in the first trunk, do we go on to check whether the
second trunk contains silver or gold.  Therefore, we only set a new value in `second_trunks` where there was gold in the first trunk.

> Now let us show the effect of running a comparison on `first_10_trunks`:

Reviewer 2: let us -> let's

Author: Thanks!  I think it's 50-50 here - partly because Simon has a rather old-fashioned style I'm trying to reproduce in part - but happy to go for your half of the 50-50.

```suggestion
Now let's show the effect of running a comparison on `first_10_trunks`:
```

```{python}
were_gold = first_10_trunks == 'Gold'
were_gold
```

```{r}
were_gold <- first_10_trunks == 'Gold'
were_gold
```

The `== 'Gold'` *comparison* is asking a question.  It is asking that question
of {{< var an_array >}}, and the {{< var array >}} contains multiple values.
{{< var np_or_r >}} treats this comparison as asking the question *of each
element in the {{< var array >}}*.  We get an answer for the question *for each
element*.  The answer for position [1]{.r}[0]{.python} is {{< var true >}} if
the element at position [1]{.r}[0]{.python} is equal to `'Gold'` and {{< var
false >}} otherwise, and so on, for positions [2]{.r}[1]{.python},
[3]{.r}[2]{.python} and so on.  We started with 10 strings.  After the
comparison `== 'Gold'` we have 10 Boolean values, where a Boolean value can
either be {{< var true >}} or {{< var false >}}.

<!---
We need an illustration here of form:

True        "Gold"
True        "Gold"
False       "No gold in first trunk"
True        "Gold"
False   =   "Silver"                     == 'Gold'
...

> Any takers?  Good techniques?   Maybe generated Markdown table with transparent boerder for second and fourth column?

Reviewer 2: Question: Do you also use html if it is more convenient than markdown?

Reviewer: You're right, markdown tables are not very convenient. We tend to generate them, or edit them in editors with support, or display Pandas dataframes (we have some utility functions to make that easier). But I agree that HTML tables would be quite easy to parse, and it looks like Quarto supports that out of the box:

https://quarto.org/docs/authoring/tables.html#html-tables

Reviewer: After reading the section, I'm wondering what the goal of the illustration is.
Printing the input data, along with the boolean output, makes the connection quite clear?

Author: I personally find pictures rather helpful - there's no new information - just an easier way to grok the information.

I was thinking - we might also be able to generate LaTeX via an `asis` code block.

what we want here.   Remember *operator precedence*; the multiply operator `*`
has *higher precedence* than the operator `+`, so `3 + 5 * 2` is equal to 3 +
(5 * 2) = 13.  If we want to do addition before multiplication, we use
parentheses to tell Python the order it should use: `(3 + 5) * 2` = 16.

The same applies for the two operators `==` and `&` here.   In fact `&` has a
higher precedence than `==` so Python will read the expression without
parentheses — `ten_first_trunks == 'Gold' & ten_second_trunks == 'Gold'` to
mean (because of operator precedence) `ten_first_trunks == ('Gold' &
ten_second_trunks) == 'Gold'`; it does not know what to do with `'Gold' &
ten_second_trunks` and generates an error:

```{python tags=c("raises-exception"), error=TRUE}
# The statement without parentheses generates an error, because of the
# "Gold' & ten_second_trunks operation, from operator precedence.
ten_first_trunks == 'Gold' & ten_second_trunks == 'Gold'
```

This is the same error you get for:

```{python tags=c("raises-exception"), error=TRUE}
# The expression that causes the error.
'Gold' & ten_second_trunks
```

The point to take away is, that when you are using `&` to combine Boolean

> arrays in Python, remember operator precedence, and, when in doubt, put

Reviewer 2: Isn't it good practice to use parentheses anyway?

Author: OK - I'll add something there about good practice.
